but it so happened when sanballat heard
that we were rebuilding the wall that he
was furious and very indignant and
mocked the Jews and he spoke before his
brethren and the army of Samaria
what are these feeble Jews doing will
they fortify themselves will they offer
sacrifices will they complete it in a
day
will they revive the stones from the
heaps of rubbish stones that are burned
now tobiah the ammonite was beside him
[Laughter]
whatever they build if even a fox goes
up on it he will break down their stone
wall here o our God
for we are despised turn their reproach
on their own heads and give them as
plunder to a land of captivity do not
cover their iniquity and do not let
their sin be blotted out from before you
for they have provoked you to anger
before the builders so we built the wall
and the entire wall was joined together
up to half its height for the people had
a mind to work now it happened when
sanballat Tobiah the arabs the ammonites
and the ash tonight's heard that the
walls of jerusalem were being restored
and the gaps were beginning to be closed
that they became very angry and all of
them conspired together to come and
attack Jerusalem and create confusion
nevertheless we made our prayer to our
God and because of them we set a watch
against them day and night
then Judah said the strength of the
laborers is failing and there's so much
rubbish that we are not able to build
the wall
and our adversary said they will neither
know nor see anything till we come into
their midst and kill them and cause the
work to cease so it was when the Jews
who dwelt near them came that they told
us 10 times from whatever place you turn
they will be upon us therefore are
positioned men behind the lower parts of
the wall at the openings and I set the
people according to their families with
their swords their spears and their bows
and I looked and arose and said to the
nobles to the leaders and to the rest of
the people do not be afraid of them
remember the Lord great and awesome and
fight for your brethren your sons go
dogs your wives and your houses and it
happened when our enemies heard that it
was known to us and that God had brought
their plot to nothing that all of us
returned to the wall everyone to his
work so it was from that time on that
half of my servants worked construction
while the other half held the spears the
shields the bows and war Armour and the
leaders were behind all the house of
Judah those who built on the wall and
those who carried burdens loaded
themselves so that with one hand they
worked construction and with the other
held a weapon every one of the builders
had his sword girded at his side as he
built and the one who sounded the
trumpet was beside me
then I said to the nobles the rulers and
the rest of the people the work is great
and extensive and we are separated far
from one another on the wall wherever
you hear the sound of the trumpet
rallied to us there our God will fight
for us so we laboured in the work and
half of the men held the Spears from
daybreak until the Stars appeared at the
same time I also said to the people let
each man and his servants stay at night
in Jerusalem that they may be our guard
by night and a working party by day so
neither I my brethren my servants nor
the men of the guard who followed me
took off our clothes except that
everyone took them off for washer
you